Scope of Work and responsibilities of Database Administrator

1) Support for various existing Oracle and SQL Database OS platforms.

2) Installing Oracle Database/Client software and creation of the database.

3) Installing SQL Database software and creation of the database.

4) DR Site Creation.

5) Database Administration/Monitoring of existing platforms.

6) Monitoring and tuning all database servers (DC,DR and Near DR).

7) Creating User groups, tables and profiles.

8) Performance fine-tuning and smooth functioning.

9) Pro-actively monitoring the database's health and taking preventive or corrective action as required.

10) Creating and maintaining all database objects, including tables, clusters, indexes, views, sequences, function, packages and procedures.

11) Enforces and maintains database constraints to ensure integrity of the database.

12) Implementing and maintaining regular backup (RMAN/EXPDP) procedures. Coordinating with necessary software vendors.

13) Making database Backup and Restoration using RMAN and Data pump method and performing recovery when necessary.

14) Refresh Database periodically for Development purpose (UAT).

15) DR-Drill activity.

16) Database shut-down/Start-up/Fail-over/snapshot standby steps.

17) Regularly shut-down/reboot database for fine tuning as per industry standard.

18) Disk and data file addition as and when required.

19) Regular archive deletion.

20) Storage/Disk Management(Table spaces, ASM Disk, OS mount Point)

21) Manage the size and file of the database schema objects.

22) Importing, Exporting and distributing Data. 23) Regular indexing and stat gather of all database.

24) Log shipping (DC-DR and Near DR). Monitoring MIS activities

25) Up-gradation of database (oracle latest Opatches) with help of oracle support site.

26) Database security Apply Critical patches

27) SR Creation and follow-up with Oracle support

28) Managing Devices & Databases, User Accounts, access rights, resources.

29) Scheduling tasks and alerts.

30) Generation of MIS reports and evaluation sheet.

31) Implementation/Support and Functionality for all the activities related with Database.

32) Implementation of audit recommendations.

33) Regular Data purging.

34) AWR/stat pack reports